# My journey doing the challenge

In this document, you'll find all details about my journey building this project.

## Machine setup to start building the project

1. [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) configured to choose the appropriate node.js version
2. Install [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) globally using npm. `yarn init -y` to start a basic package.json
3. [Git](https://git-scm.com/) to code versioning
4. [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) to write all poems with excellence

## List of things that is good to have

- SPA (Single Page Application)
- To handle all things manually as possible like:
  - Styles,
  - UI controls,
  - Predefined guidelines _(I believe this point is about code quality)_
- Project setup
- Dependencies configuration
- Build process
- Build resources
- To do everything from scratch

## Planning the front-end software

### Project structure

```
.
├── src/
    ├── components/
    ├── features/
    ├── screens/
    ├── constants/
    ├── hooks/
    ├── images/
    ├── utils/
    └── index.js (entry point)
├── public/
    └── index.html
├── build/
├── .editorconfig
├── .babelrc
├── package.json
├── webpack.config.js
├── .eslintrc.js
├── .gitignore
├── .prettierrc
├── jest.config.js
├── postcss.config.js
├── tailwind.config.js
└── yarn.lock

```

### Project structure explanation

- `src`: represents the project code to be maintained
  - `components`: represents the stateless and shared components
  - `features`: represents the stateful components
  - `screens`: represents the page screens
  - `constants`: centralize all constants on the project
  - `hooks`: represents the business logic
  - `images`: centralize all images necessary for the project
  - `utils`: represents utility functions that help to extract some responsibilities by the code
  - `index.js`: is the application entry point, the project initialization and render should happen here
- `public`: represents static files that would be accessed via HTTP
  - `index.html`: is the document to be loaded by the browser to start the SPA and load the necessary resources
- `build`: represents the code generated after the building process and the code to be used in a production environment
- `.editorconfig`: config to a VS Code extension to set some files pattern
- `.babelrc`: the Babel configurations
- `package.json`: project metadata, here you find project dependencies, dev dependencies and other metadata
- `webpack.config.js`: all the build processes and optimization will be in this file
- `.eslintrc.js`: the Eslint configuration file to set the rules, plugins, extends and other important things to validate the code quality
- `.gitignore`: a file with patterns to prevent the commit of some directories and files
- `.prettierrc`: the Prettier configuration file to set the rules to validate the code format.
- `jest.config.js`: the Jest configuration that sets the basic Jest configuration to run the unit tests
- `postcss.config.js`: the PostCSS configuration file that is responsible to transform CSS with JS. This file is responsible to integrate the tailwind into the project
- `tailwind.config.js`: the TailwindCSS configuration file. This file is recognized by the Tailwind dependency to available its CSS into the application
- `yarn.lock`: a file generated by the Yarn to store the dependency tree

## Webpack

### Dependencies

The dependencies below are important to make the Webpack configuration works.

> `babel-loader` is the dependency that integrate webpack with babel

```
"babel-loader": "^8.2.5",
"html-webpack-plugin": "^5.5.0",
"webpack": "^5.74.0",
"webpack-cli": "^4.10.0",
"webpack-dev-server": "^4.10.0"
```

### Mode

The mode should be `production` or `development`. Webpack and its plugins will work in a different way between these two modes.

### Output

About the `filename` property, note that its value has `[name]`, it occurs to make the chunks happen. Chunks are an important config to take advantage of code splitting and lazy loading.

### HtmlWebpackPlugin

This plugin was installed and configured to get the entry point script and its corresponding resources to put it automatically to index.html.

### Modules - Rules

This part of the Webpack configuration is very important to make the application work with JSX and all presets necessary to run React.

To make the `.jsx` files to be understand by Webpack, the `resolve.extensions` and `test: /\.jsx?$/` was needed.

### Code Splitting

Code splitting was configured in this app looking to optimize the first bundle loaded by the page. To use this resource you can write `import()` to call some module asynchronous.

### Webpack Dev Server

Was configured the `webpack-dev-server` to get easily some abilities like updating the browser on changes.

Some configurations were applied in the client config that are:

- `overlay`, to show on the screen when an error occurs,
- `logging` to log info on the browser

And the `port` also was configured to receive a custom port from the `PORT` environment variable or set the default which is `3000`.

## Babel

### Dependencies

The dependencies below are important to make Babel work.

```
"@babel/core": "^7.18.13",
"@babel/preset-react": "^7.18.6",
```

### Presets

`@babel/preset-react` was defined to enable the use of JSX and other configs to make the React work. As config options were put the `"runtime": "automatic"` to not be necessary always import the react on each file.

## Linter and Formatter

### Dependencies

```
"eslint": "^8.23.0",
"eslint-config-prettier": "^8.5.0",
"eslint-plugin-import": "^2.26.0",
"eslint-plugin-jsx-a11y": "^6.6.1",
"eslint-plugin-prettier": "^4.2.1",
"eslint-plugin-react": "^7.31.1",
"eslint-plugin-react-hooks": "^4.6.0",
"prettier": "^2.7.1",
```

> JSX [a11y](https://www.a11yproject.com/) help us to keep good practices about accessibility.

The Eslint and Prettier were configured to check code problems and code format. This approach helps to keep a code pattern between developers.

We can use its config to always run on continuous integrations.

If you have the VS Code extensions, Prettier and Eslint installed, you will see errors on development time.

## Tailwind

To introduce CSS in the application is needed to prepare Webpack to can process this work through loaders.

The dependencies necessary were:

```
"style-loader": "^3.3.1",
"css-loader": "^6.7.1",
```

To prepare the Webpack to work with Tailwind was necessary the config below:

### Dependencies

```
"postcss-loader": "^7.0.1",
"tailwindcss": "^3.1.8",
```

### Tailwind Config

`tailwind.config.js`: in this file, you can talk to tailwind some configurations but in our case no configuration was necessary.

### PostCSS

This is the core configuration because the tailwind was applied by PostCSS via Webpack loader. After this, the styles were applied in the `global.css` that is called in the `App.js`.

### Tailwind VS Code extension

The TailwindCSS recommends that you install in your VS Code the [IntelliSense](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/editor-setup#intelli-sense-for-vs-code)

## Jest setup

### Dependencies

```
"@babel/preset-env": "^7.18.10",
"@testing-library/jest-dom": "^5.16.5",
"@testing-library/react": "^13.3.0",
"@testing-library/user-event": "^14.4.3",
"eslint-plugin-jest": "^27.0.1",
"jest": "^29.0.1",
"jest-environment-jsdom": "^29.0.1",
```

### Jest Config

A basic and useful configuration was defined in the `jest.config.js` file. Also was added the script `yarn test` to run the tests.

I'm using the [React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/) to make asserts on the code. I like to use it because it forces you to validate your code by thinking accessibility-first.

To simulate user events was configured the [`userEvent`](https://testing-library.com/docs/ecosystem-user-event).

### Jest Eslint

Looking to help with written tests was configured the jest Eslint plugin and added to `.eslintrc` the `'plugin:jest/recommended'` plugin.

---

## Design

You'll find the Figma made in the following link:

https://www.figma.com/file/8RpTyQixcl0pVIHoc3Oti8/Income-tax-calculator

### Considerations

To build the layout some characteristics were used looking for TailwindCSS patterns like spacing, colors, font size and other values.
